GSM, WCDMA, LTE, and NR are all wireless communication technologies that have been developed over the years. Each
technology has its own strengths and weaknesses, and understanding the differences between them is important for
selecting the right technology for a particular application.

- GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications) is a 2G (second-generation) technology that was developed in the 1990s.
  GSM uses frequency bands between 850 MHz and 1900 MHz and supports data rates of up to 9.6 kbps. GSM has limited data
  capacity and is primarily used for voice calls and basic text messaging.

- WCDMA (Wideband Code Division Multiple Access) is a 3G (third-generation) technology that was developed in the early
  2000s. WCDMA uses frequency bands between 850 MHz and 2100 MHz and supports data rates of up to 384 kbps. WCDMA has
  greater data capacity than GSM and is capable of supporting video calls and internet browsing.

- LTE (Long-Term Evolution) is a 4G (fourth-generation) technology that was developed in the late 2000s. LTE uses
  frequency bands between 700 MHz and 2600 MHz and supports data rates of up to 100 Mbps. LTE has even greater data
  capacity than WCDMA and is capable of supporting high-definition video streaming and other bandwidth-intensive
  applications.

- NR (New Radio) is a 5G (fifth-generation) technology that was developed in the 2010s. NR uses frequency bands between
  450 MHz and 52.6 GHz and supports data rates of up to 10 Gbps. NR has significantly greater data capacity than LTE and
  is capable of supporting a wide range of applications, including augmented reality, virtual reality, and the Internet
  of Things (IoT).

<img src="https://static.pedroc.co.uk/images/vodafone_and_o2_beacon_1_and_2/o2_e_beacon_2_very_high_capacity.jpg">

In terms of call capacity, GSM supports up to 200 users per cell, WCDMA supports up to 384 users per cell, LTE supports
up to 2000 users per cell, and NR supports up to 1 million devices per square kilometer.

In summary, GSM is a legacy technology primarily used for voice calls, WCDMA is a 3G technology capable of supporting
video calls and internet browsing, LTE is a 4G technology capable of supporting high-definition video streaming, and NR
is a 5G technology capable of supporting a wide range of bandwidth-intensive applications. Each technology has its own
frequency bands, maximum speeds, call capacity, and other features, and selecting the right technology for a particular
application requires careful consideration of these factors.

Another key difference between these wireless communication technologies is the modulation scheme used to transmit data.
GSM and WCDMA use a form of modulation known as code division multiple access (CDMA), which allows multiple users to
share the same frequency band. In contrast, LTE and NR use orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM), which
divides a high-speed data stream into multiple lower-speed substreams that are transmitted in parallel across multiple
frequency bands.

Another important difference between these technologies is their spectral efficiency, which refers to the amount of data
that can be transmitted over a given frequency band. GSM has a spectral efficiency of around 0.3 bps/Hz, WCDMA has a
spectral efficiency of around 1.5 bps/Hz, LTE has a spectral efficiency of around 3-4 bps/Hz, and NR has a spectral
efficiency of around 30 bps/Hz.

The differences between these technologies also have implications for their network architecture and deployment. GSM and
WCDMA are typically deployed using a circuit-switched architecture, where a dedicated circuit is established for each
voice call or data session. In contrast, LTE and NR are typically deployed using a packet-switched architecture, where
data is transmitted in discrete packets over the network.

In terms of coverage and availability, GSM and WCDMA have widespread coverage in many parts of the world, while LTE and
NR are still being rolled out in many regions. However, LTE and NR are expected to eventually replace older technologies
like GSM and WCDMA, as they offer greater data capacity and faster speeds.

In conclusion, understanding the differences between GSM, WCDMA, LTE, and NR is important for selecting the right
wireless communication technology for a particular application. These technologies differ in terms of their frequency
bands, maximum speeds, call capacity, spectral efficiency, modulation schemes, network architecture, and deployment,
among other factors. As the world becomes increasingly connected, the demand for high-speed, reliable wireless
communication will continue to grow, and these technologies will continue to evolve to meet those needs.

<img src="https://static.pedroc.co.uk/images/ee_5g_masts/ee_ericsson_32trx_5g_site.jpg">
